---
Title: Campaigns
Weight: 190
---

:imagesdir: ./../../../images/en/user

= Campaigns

The Campaigns module in SuiteCRM can be a very powerful marketing and
advertising tool for your organisation allowing you to create and track
Newsletter, Email and non-email Campaigns to prospective or existing
customers. With the tracking tools built into the Campaign module you
can monitor the response you receive from your Campaign in real time,
allowing you to view the return on investment (ROI) and many other
useful metrics. This in turn helps you to plan your strategic marketing
and advertising activities effectively by visualising which Campaigns
work and which do not.

== Campaign Actions

You can access the Campaign actions from the Campaign module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Campaign actions are as follows:

* *Create Campaign* – This takes you to the Campaign Wizard page.
* *View Campaigns* – Redirects you to the List View for the Campaign
module. This allows you to search and list Campaign records.
* *Create Email Template* – A WYSIWYG editor where you can create emails
by dragging and dropping components, inserting variables and amending
the plain text.
* *View Email Templates* – Takes you to the List View page of your
existing Email Templates. This allows you to search and list Email
Template records.
* *View Diagnostics* – Allows you to check that your Campaign Emails and
Campaign schedulers are set up correctly. If this is the case then a
green tick icon will appear, if there are any issues with the setup then
a red cross icon will appear and you should contact your Admin for
assistance.
* *Create Person Form* – A web form template Wizard allowing you to create
Leads, Contacts and Targets.
* To view the full list of fields available when creating a Campaign,
See link:http://docs.suitecrm.com/user/appendix-a/#_campaigns_field_list[Campaign Fields List].

== Creating a Campaign via Campaign Wizard

To create a Campaign and to begin the Campaign Wizard click on the
Create Campaign button on the sidebar or module menu drop down while in
the Campaign module.

image:74Creating_a_campaign.png[title="Creating a Campaign"]

Alternatively click on the Create button at the top right of the screen
when in the List View of the View Campaigns page. Once you click Create
Campaign then you will be presented with three options, Newsletter,
Email and Non-email based Campaign.

image:75Creating_a_campaign.png[title="Select campaign"]

=== Campaign Wizard Header and Budget

On clicking your selected Campaign icon you will be taken to the first
page of the Campaign Wizard, the Campaign Header page. In this page you
will be prompted to complete the required fields of Name and Status as
well as having the opportunity to record any information you may wish to
about your Campaign Budget (Campaign Budget is on a separate page for
Non-email based Campaigns).

image:76Creating_a_campaign.png[title="Campaign Header"]

Once you have completed the necessary fields and are ready to progress
to the next stage then click Next.

image:77Creating_a_campaign.png[title="Next"]

=== Campaign Wizard Subscriptions – Newsletter Campaigns Only

For a Newsletter Campaign the next step of the Campaign Wizard allows
you to specify your Subscription information.

image:78Newsletter_campaign.png[title="Newsletter Campaign"]

This stage is made up of three components; the Subscription List,
Unsubscription List and Test List.

* *The Subscription List* - Allows you to set a Target List for your
Campaign. This Target List will be used to send out emails for this
Campaign. If you have not already created a Target List then an empty
list will be created for you and you can set this at a later time.
* *The Unsubscription List* - Allows you to set a Target List of
individuals who have opted out of your marketing and should not be
contacted through email. If you have not already created a Target List
then an empty list will be created for you and you can set this at a
later time.
* *The Test List* - Allows you to set a Target List to send out test
emails for this Campaign. If you have not already created a Target List
then an empty list will be created for you and you can set this at a
later time.

Once you have completed the necessary fields then click Next and you
will be taken to the Templates page which the next stage of the Campaign
Wizard.

=== Campaign Wizard Target Lists – Email and Non-Email Based Campaigns

For all Email and non-email based Campaign the next step of the Campaign
Wizard allows you to specify your Target Lists. For Email based
Campaigns this is where you would choose a list of people to Email based
on Existing Targets already created in the CRM. Or for Telesales
(non-email based) Campaigns for example this could be a list of people
that you would call.

image:79E-mail_campaign.png[title="Email Campaign"]

Recipients that have previously opted out of your marketing Campaigns
will automatically be removed from your Target List.

image:80E-mail_campaign.png[title="Target list"]

If you have not at this stage created a Target List you can create an
empty one using the dropdown menu in the image above and populate it
after you have completed the rest of your Campaign setup by visiting the
link:http://docs.suitecrm.com/user/appendix-a/#_target_lists_field_list[Target Lists] page. The next step for non-email based
Campaigns is the link:#Campaign_Summary[Campaign Summary] page, Email
based Campaigns however should move onto the Campaign Templates page.

=== Campaign Wizard Templates

image:81Campaign_template.png[title="Campaign Wizard Template"]

This page is a WYSIWYG Newsletter Template editor so you can create a
template for your marketing emails.

image:82Campaign_template.png[title="Template options"]

The panel at the top presents you with three options which allows you to
select an existing template, create a brand new template or copy an
existing template.

* *Select an existing template* – You can select from a drop down list of
existing Email Templates
* *Create a brand new template* – If you wish to start the Newsletter from
scratch then you can select this option.
* *Copy an existing template* – Allows you select an existing template and
use this as a base to make amendments

Once you have chosen an Email Template you can decide you want to insert
a Tracker URL. This can be used to insert a link to your organisation's
website or direct link to a new product that you have launched. Also,
you are given the opportunity to place an 'Opt Out' link in your
template.

image:83Campaign_template.png[title="Tracker URL"]

{{% notice note %}}
The 'Opt Out' link is added to the template
automatically even if you do not insert one at this point. Another
interesting feature of the Email Templates page is the ability to
personalise your templates by inserting variables. You can for example
insert the 'Account ID' variable in the subject line, or even insert the
addressee's first name and last name to add a more personal touch.
{{% /notice %}}

image:84Campaign_template.png[title="Email variables"]

The WYSIWYG editor is displayed at the bottom of the Email Template
page, this editor allows you to visualise how your template will
actually look.

image:85Campaign_template.png[title="WYSIWYG editor"]

The panel on the left side of the editor allows you to drag and drop
different layout components to your template. These then can be edited
in the right side display panel. Once you have inserted a component into
the display panel you can click on the added item and the editor menu
will appear.

image:Email_Template_Editor.png[title="Email Template Editor"]

This menu provides you with a multitude of additional options which
allows you to customise the layout and appearance of your template. Font
type can be selected, formatted, colours changed, text alignment chosen,
images and even videos can be inserted.

Insert HTML by clicking Tools > Source Code

The bottom panel offers the option to include attachments with your
Email Template, this could be used if for example you wished to attach a
something like a product catalogue to your Newsletter. Once you are
satisfied with your Email Template you can click Next and you will be
taken to the Marketing page which is the next stage of the Campaign
Wizard.

=== Campaign Wizard Marketing

image:87Campaign_marketing.png[title="Campaign Wizard Marketing"]

This section of the Campaign Wizard allows you to specify the Email
settings for your Campaign including the Bounce Handling Account,
Outgoing Email Account, From/Reply-to Name and Address. In addition to
this, you can Schedule your Campaign by completing the Date and Time
fields. Once you are satisfied with your Email Settings and Schedule you
can click Next and you will be taken to the Summary page which is the
final stage of the Campaign Wizard.

=== Campaign Wizard Summary

image:Newsletter_Summary_Review.png[title="Newsletter Summary Review"]

The Summary page includes a checklist which indicates that each page of
the Campaign Wizard has been completed satisfactorily. If a section is
complete then this is shown with green tick icon, otherwise this will be
highlighted with a red cross icon. If any section has not been completed
then SuiteCRM will not permit the Campaign to be sent. In this instance
in the image shown above the 'Choose Targets' section has not been
completed correctly as indicated by the red cross icon. This would be
resolved by clicking back to the Target List page and specifying a
Subscription List with at least one entry. Once you have ensured all
sections are complete then you can choose one of three options:

* *Send Mail at Scheduled Time* – You can click this once you are sure all
sections of the Campaign are set correctly and are confident that it is
the finished article.
* *Send Marketing Email as Test* – This option gives you the opportunity
to send out your Campaign to your Test List that you specified in the
Subscriptions section of the Campaign Wizard. By doing this you can view
the Campaign as a recipient and double check that the Campaign appears
as it should do before sending out to real prospective/live customers.
* *View Details* – By clicking this option you are taken to the Detail
View of the Campaign record you have just created through the Newsletter
Campaign Wizard.

== Create Person Form

Another feature of the Campaign module is the web form template Wizard
allowing you to create Leads, Contacts and Targets. This can be accessed
by clicking on the Create Person Form button from the dropdown menu in
the Campaign module or via the sidebar when in the module.

image:88Create_person_form.png[title="Create Person Form"]

Once you have clicked this, you will be taken to the first page of the
Create Person Form Wizard.

image:89Create_person_form.png[title="Create Person Form Wizard"]

This stage allows you to specify the type of person you would like to
create via your web form. The dropdown menu allows you to choose from a
Lead, Contact or Target. On selecting the person type you would like to
create the Available Fields dynamically change. Once you have chosen
this you can drag and drop the fields you would like to include on your
web form. Fields dropped into the First Form Column area are displayed
on the left side of your web form and the fields dropped into the Second
Form Column area are displayed on the right side of your web form. You
can choose to have 1 or 2 columns, all on the left side, right side or
on both sides. Please note as a minimum you need to include the required
fields included in your web form as indicated by an asterisk. Once you
are satisfied with the fields you wish to include click the Next button
to progress to the next stage.

=== Create Person Form – Additional Information

image:90Createperson_form.png[title="Additional information"]

On this page you can configure your web form appearance by adding a Form
Header/Footer, Form Description, change the label on the Submit button
or change how the URL is displayed. As a minimum you have to relate the
web form to an existing Campaign and assign to a User before clicking
the Generate Form button to progress to the next stage.

=== Create Person Form – Editor

image:91Createperson_form.png[title="Web form"]

The final step of the Create Person Form Wizard allows you to format the
web form you have setup by using the WYSIWYG editor. This editor
provides you with a multitude of additional options which allows you to
customise the layout and appearance of your web form. Font type can be
selected, formatted, colours changed, text alignment chosen and images
can be inserted. Once you are happy with the appearance of your web form
click Save Web Form. On clicking this button you can either click on the
link to download the web form you have just created or copy and paste
the html to an existing document. By clicking the download link this
will save the html form in your download folder.

image:92Createperson_form.png[title="Download form"]

Please note that the web form will not be stored anywhere else on the
CRM, to ensure the html is saved please carry out one of the two steps
above.

== Campaign Response Tracking

When in the Detail View of a Campaign record you can access the inbuilt
Campaign response tracking by clicking the View Status button.

image:93View_status.png[title="View status"]

On clicking this button you will be taken to the Status page for that
Campaign record. This page gives an overview of the Campaign details as
well as a graphical representation of your Campaign response including
the number of messages sent, bounced messages, how many viewers, opt
outs and how many clicked through links.

image:View_Campaign_Status.png[title="Campaign response graph"]

These fields are expanded further down the page and detailed on an
individual record level. These records can be added to a new Target List
by clicking the Add to Target List button. This allows you to create
new, more focussed Campaigns based on who has responded.

image:94Campaign_response.png[title="Add to target list"]

== Campaign ROI Tracking

When in the Detail View of a Campaign record you can access the inbuilt
Campaign ROI tracking by clicking the View ROI button.

image:95Campaign_tracking.png[title="View ROI"]

On clicking this button you will be taken to the ROI page for that
Campaign record. This page gives a graphical representation of your
Campaign Return on Investment, allowing you to easily visualise how your
organisation's money spent on the Campaign has translated into potential
business.

image:Campaign_ROI_Graph.png[]
